README.md, before:

Slurm
=====

Install and configure a Slurm cluster on RHEL/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu servers
To configure a custom Debian repository, define `slurm_configure_repos: true`.

Then, define the APT  repositories with the URL to the GPG key.

    # Example apt repository
    slurm_apt_repository: "deb [trusted=yes] http://127.0.0.1/ubuntu/22.04/amd64/  ./"
    # Example GPG key
    slurm_gpg_key: 'http://127.0.0.1/ubuntu/22.04/amd64/GPG-KEY-slurm'
     
Define `slurm_apt_priority` to pin the priority of the repository (APT only). This is optional.

    slurm_apt_priority: 900

Role Variables
--------------

All variables are optional. If nothing is set, the role will install the Slurm client programs, munge, and
create a `slurm.conf` with a single `localhost` node and `debug` partition.
See the [defaults](defaults/main.yml) and [example playbooks](#example-playbooks) for examples.

For the various roles a slurm node can play, you can either set group names, or add values to a list, `slurm_roles`.

- group slurmservers or `slurm_roles: ['controller']`
- group slurmexechosts or `slurm_roles: ['exec']`
- group slurmdbdservers or `slurm_roles: ['dbd']`

General config options for slurm.conf go in `slurm_config`, a hash. Keys are Slurm config option names.

Partitions and nodes go in `slurm_partitions` and `slurm_nodes`, lists of hashes. The only required key in the hash is
`name`, which becomes the `PartitionName` or `NodeName` for that line. All other keys/values are placed on to the line
of that partition or node.

Options for the additional configuration files [acct_gather.conf](https://slurm.schedmd.com/acct_gather.conf.html),
[cgroup.conf](https://slurm.schedmd.com/cgroup.conf.html) and [gres.conf](https://slurm.schedmd.com/gres.conf.html)
may be specified in the `slurm_acct_gather_config`, `slurm_cgroup_config` (both of them hashes) and
`slurm_gres_config` (list of hashes) respectively.

Set `slurm_upgrade` to true to upgrade the installed Slurm packages.

You can use `slurm_user` (a hash) and `slurm_create_user` (a bool) to pre-create a Slurm user so that uids match.

Note that this role requires root access, so enable ``become`` either globally in your playbook / on the commandline or
just for the role like [shown below](#example-playbooks).

Dependencies
------------

None.

Example Playbooks
-----------------

Minimal setup, all services on one node:

```yaml
- name: Slurm all in One
  hosts: all
  vars:
    slurm_roles: ['controller', 'exec', 'dbd']
  roles:
    - role: galaxyproject.slurm
      become: True
```

More extensive example:

```yaml
- name: Slurm execution hosts
  hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: galaxyproject.slurm
      become: True
  vars:
    slurm_cgroup_config:
      CgroupMountpoint: "/sys/fs/cgroup"
      CgroupAutomount: yes
      ConstrainCores: yes
      TaskAffinity: no
      ConstrainRAMSpace: yes
      ConstrainSwapSpace: no
      ConstrainDevices: no
      AllowedRamSpace: 100
      AllowedSwapSpace: 0
      MaxRAMPercent: 100
      MaxSwapPercent: 100
      MinRAMSpace: 30
    slurm_config:
      AccountingStorageType: "accounting_storage/none"
      ClusterName: cluster
      GresTypes: gpu
      JobAcctGatherType: "jobacct_gather/none"
      MpiDefault: none
      ProctrackType: "proctrack/cgroup"
      ReturnToService: 1
      SchedulerType: "sched/backfill"
      SelectType: "select/cons_res"
      SelectTypeParameters: "CR_Core"
      SlurmctldHost: "slurmctl"
      SlurmctldLogFile: "/var/log/slurm/slurmctld.log"
      SlurmctldPidFile: "/var/run/slurmctld.pid"
      SlurmdLogFile: "/var/log/slurm/slurmd.log"
      SlurmdPidFile: "/var/run/slurmd.pid"
      SlurmdSpoolDir: "/var/spool/slurmd"
      StateSaveLocation: "/var/spool/slurmctld"
      SwitchType: "switch/none"
      TaskPlugin: "task/affinity,task/cgroup"
      TaskPluginParam: Sched
    slurm_create_user: yes
    slurm_gres_config:
      - File: /dev/nvidia[0-3]
        Name: gpu
        NodeName: gpu[01-10]
        Type: tesla
    slurm_munge_key: "../../../munge.key"
    slurm_nodes:
      - name: "gpu[01-10]"
        CoresPerSocket: 18
        Gres: "gpu:tesla:4"
        Sockets: 2
        ThreadsPerCore: 2
    slurm_partitions:
      - name: gpu
        Default: YES
        MaxTime: UNLIMITED
        Nodes: "gpu[01-10]"
    slurm_roles: ['exec']
    slurm_user:
      comment: "Slurm Workload Manager"
      gid: 888
      group: slurm
      home: "/var/lib/slurm"
      name: slurm
      shell: "/usr/sbin/nologin"
      uid: 888
```

License
-------

MIT

Author Information
------------------

- [Nate Coraor](https://github.com/natefoo)
- [Helena Rasche](https://github.com/erasche)

[View contributors on GitHub](https://github.com/galaxyproject/ansible-slurm/graphs/contributors)

Commit message:

Allow to define several SlurmctldHost in a list
SlurmctldHost can be defined more than once in slurm.conf to define a
primary and backups Slurm controllers. If SlurmctldHost is defined as a
list in `slurm_config`, then the template will add one line per list
item in slurm.conf..

README.md, after:

Slurm
=====

Install and configure a Slurm cluster on RHEL/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu servers
To configure a custom Debian repository, define `slurm_configure_repos: true`.

Then, define the APT  repositories with the URL to the GPG key.

    # Example apt repository
    slurm_apt_repository: "deb [trusted=yes] http://127.0.0.1/ubuntu/22.04/amd64/  ./"
    # Example GPG key
    slurm_gpg_key: 'http://127.0.0.1/ubuntu/22.04/amd64/GPG-KEY-slurm'
     
Define `slurm_apt_priority` to pin the priority of the repository (APT only). This is optional.

    slurm_apt_priority: 900

Role Variables
--------------

All variables are optional. If nothing is set, the role will install the Slurm client programs, munge, and
create a `slurm.conf` with a single `localhost` node and `debug` partition.
See the [defaults](defaults/main.yml) and [example playbooks](#example-playbooks) for examples.

For the various roles a slurm node can play, you can either set group names, or add values to a list, `slurm_roles`.

- group slurmservers or `slurm_roles: ['controller']`
- group slurmexechosts or `slurm_roles: ['exec']`
- group slurmdbdservers or `slurm_roles: ['dbd']`

General config options for slurm.conf go in `slurm_config`, a hash. Keys are Slurm config option names.

Partitions and nodes go in `slurm_partitions` and `slurm_nodes`, lists of hashes. The only required key in the hash is
`name`, which becomes the `PartitionName` or `NodeName` for that line. All other keys/values are placed on to the line
of that partition or node.

Options for the additional configuration files [acct_gather.conf](https://slurm.schedmd.com/acct_gather.conf.html),
[cgroup.conf](https://slurm.schedmd.com/cgroup.conf.html) and [gres.conf](https://slurm.schedmd.com/gres.conf.html)
may be specified in the `slurm_acct_gather_config`, `slurm_cgroup_config` (both of them hashes) and
`slurm_gres_config` (list of hashes) respectively.

Set `slurm_upgrade` to true to upgrade the installed Slurm packages.

You can use `slurm_user` (a hash) and `slurm_create_user` (a bool) to pre-create a Slurm user so that uids match.

Note that this role requires root access, so enable ``become`` either globally in your playbook / on the commandline or
just for the role like [shown below](#example-playbooks).

Dependencies
------------

None.

Example Playbooks
-----------------

Minimal setup, all services on one node:

```yaml
- name: Slurm all in One
  hosts: all
  vars:
    slurm_roles: ['controller', 'exec', 'dbd']
  roles:
    - role: galaxyproject.slurm
      become: True
```

More extensive example:

```yaml
- name: Slurm execution hosts
  hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: galaxyproject.slurm
      become: True
  vars:
    slurm_cgroup_config:
      CgroupMountpoint: "/sys/fs/cgroup"
      CgroupAutomount: yes
      ConstrainCores: yes
      TaskAffinity: no
      ConstrainRAMSpace: yes
      ConstrainSwapSpace: no
      ConstrainDevices: no
      AllowedRamSpace: 100
      AllowedSwapSpace: 0
      MaxRAMPercent: 100
      MaxSwapPercent: 100
      MinRAMSpace: 30
    slurm_config:
      AccountingStorageType: "accounting_storage/none"
      ClusterName: cluster
      GresTypes: gpu
      JobAcctGatherType: "jobacct_gather/none"
      MpiDefault: none
      ProctrackType: "proctrack/cgroup"
      ReturnToService: 1
      SchedulerType: "sched/backfill"
      SelectType: "select/cons_res"
      SelectTypeParameters: "CR_Core"
      SlurmctldHost: "slurmctl"
      # Use a list to configure master and backups Slurmctld hosts
      # SlurmctldHost: ['slurmctl1', 'slurmctl2']
      SlurmctldLogFile: "/var/log/slurm/slurmctld.log"
      SlurmctldPidFile: "/var/run/slurmctld.pid"
      SlurmdLogFile: "/var/log/slurm/slurmd.log"
      SlurmdPidFile: "/var/run/slurmd.pid"
      SlurmdSpoolDir: "/var/spool/slurmd"
      StateSaveLocation: "/var/spool/slurmctld"
      SwitchType: "switch/none"
      TaskPlugin: "task/affinity,task/cgroup"
      TaskPluginParam: Sched
    slurm_create_user: yes
    slurm_gres_config:
      - File: /dev/nvidia[0-3]
        Name: gpu
        NodeName: gpu[01-10]
        Type: tesla
    slurm_munge_key: "../../../munge.key"
    slurm_nodes:
      - name: "gpu[01-10]"
        CoresPerSocket: 18
        Gres: "gpu:tesla:4"
        Sockets: 2
        ThreadsPerCore: 2
    slurm_partitions:
      - name: gpu
        Default: YES
        MaxTime: UNLIMITED
        Nodes: "gpu[01-10]"
    slurm_roles: ['exec']
    slurm_user:
      comment: "Slurm Workload Manager"
      gid: 888
      group: slurm
      home: "/var/lib/slurm"
      name: slurm
      shell: "/usr/sbin/nologin"
      uid: 888
```

License
-------

MIT

Author Information
------------------

- [Nate Coraor](https://github.com/natefoo)
- [Helena Rasche](https://github.com/erasche)

[View contributors on GitHub](https://github.com/galaxyproject/ansible-slurm/graphs/contributors)
